Extra notes for 10/10 Dinosaurs

GENERAL

ALWAYS USE A BACKUP OF THE DISC as facts like the high scores are constantly
being written to it. Alternatively, The programs can be installed on a HARD
DISC. All you need to do is to 'drag' the application to a directory window
on your hard disc.

All high scores and results are saved to disc as you exit from the game.
Ensure that you LEAVE THE GAMES USING THE EXIT OPTION rather than pressing
break to ensure your facts are stored.

Note that with the CURRENT PLAYER set to EMPTY, the achievement record is
never altered and high scores are shown within the game being played but not
saved to disc. If the current player is set to empty and several people
enter their names for a multi-player game the high score tables are also not
saved to disc.

EXTRA FEATURE

When on a game menu pressing 'I' will reveal a card index system which will
show the details of each dinosaur in a database. Click on a dinosaur name to
reveal its details. Click any button to return to the list of dinosaurs.
Click on NEXT for the next list of dinosaurs, PREVIOUS for the previous list
and EXIT to return to the game menu. Pressing ESCAPE has the same effect.

MEMORY

10 out of 10 will run on all Acorn 32-bit computers, but on a 1 Mb machine
you may have to switch the computer off for a few seconds and then turn it
back on.

CERTIFICATE PRINTING

To print a certificate in graphic form you should select the disc option
after you've selected print certificate. You should save it onto a blank,
formatted disc (there isn't room on the 10 out of 10 discs). The saved file
will have the name of the player as the filename. This can be loaded into
Paint and printed in the usual way. We've found that to print an A4
certificate on a laser printer the parameters to set when you've chosen
Print are:

     Portrait
     X scale       3:2
     X scale       3:2

  Make sure the centimetre square is highlighted green then:

     Corner X      -3.2   (note the minus)
     Corner Y       4

SPARE RIBS

The questions for the six grades are in files Q1 to Q6 in the Qfile
directory. If you wish to use your own graded questions just use those names
on a backup of the disc. Note that as they will become the new questions for
the grades, the achievement chart will be altered as they are answered.

All your own question files should go in the Qfiles directory and should not
normally be called Q1 to Q6. When children use them the result will not be
entered on the achievement chart but high scores will still be obtained.

When you enter your own questions you MUST ensure that EVERY question and
answer is followed by # and every question has ONE right answer preceded by
!. If you use Edit to create the file, it's a good idea to move the cursor
to the top of the file, press F4 and use COUNT to check that there are four
times as many #s than !s. If the numbers do not match up the game will warn
you as the file loads. The MAXIMUM number of questions in a file is 256.