Extra notes for 10/10 Junior Essentials

GENERAL

ALWAYS USE A BACKUP OF THE DISC as facts like the high scores are constantly
being written to it. Alternatively, The programs can be installed on a HARD
DISC. All you need to do is to 'drag' the application to a directory window
on your hard disc.

All high scores and results are saved to disc as you exit from the game.
Ensure that you LEAVE THE GAMES USING THE EXIT OPTION rather than pressing
break to ensure your facts are stored.

Note that with the CURRENT PLAYER set to EMPTY, the achievement record is
never altered and high scores are shown within the game being played but not
saved to disc. If the current player is set to empty and several people
enter their names for a multi-player game the high score tables are also not
saved to disc.

MEMORY

10 out of 10 will run on all Acorn 32-bit computers, but on a 1 Mb machine
you may have to switch the computer off for a few seconds and then turn it
back on.

CERTIFICATE PRINTING

To print a certificate in graphic form you should select the disc option
after you've selected print certificate. You should save it onto a blank,
formatted disc (there isn't room on the 10 out of 10 discs). The saved file
will have the name of the player as the filename. This can be loaded into
Paint and printed in the usual way. We've found that to print an A4
certificate on a laser printer the parameters to set when you've chosen
Print are:

     Portrait
     X scale       3:2
     X scale       3:2

  Make sure the centimetre square is highlighted green then:

     Corner X      -3.2   (note the minus)
     Corner Y       4

CUSTOMISING GAMES

The data for all the games is in a directory called WORDS on the disc. You
can add to or replace any of the word/question files but you must take care
to follow the same data structure. A guide to the structure is given at the
start of each file. Any line starting with $ is ignored so you can use these
to put remarks in your files.

Note that each grade is recognised by the label, for example, GRADE1. There
is no space between the word and the number. The maximum number of questions
in any individual grade is 1500, but disc space also limits the overall
number of questions.

There are no word files for ARTIST.