Extra notes for 10/10 Essential Mathematics

GENERAL

ALWAYS USE A BACKUP OF THE DISC as facts like the high scores are constantly
being written to it. Alternatively, The programs can be installed on a HARD
DISC. All you need to do is to 'drag' the application to a directory window
on your hard disc. The discs may only be backed up for your own use on a
single computer. Copying discs for any other reason is tantamount to theft
and could lead to prosecution. Site licences are available for
establishments with more than one computer or with a network.

All high scores and results are saved to disc as you exit from the game.
Ensure that you LEAVE THE GAMES USING THE EXIT OPTION rather than pressing
break to ensure your facts are stored.

MEMORY

10 out of 10 will run on all Acorn 32-bit computers, but on a 1 Mb machine
you may have to switch the computer off for a few seconds and then turn it
back on.

VGA MONITORS

A utility is included on the disc to allow the package to run on most VGA
monitors. It is called !ModeTrans and is inside the !10/10 application (hold
down shift and double-click on the !10/10 application to see it). A help
file for the utility is inside the !ModeTrans application (hold shift and
double-click).

CERTIFICATE PRINTING

To print a certificate in graphic form you should select the disc option
after you've selected print certificate. You should save it onto hard disc
or a blank formatted disc. You can enter your own filename using the
standard Acorn "Path.filename" structure.

Depending on your system, a default path or filename is given. If the
default ends in a dot it is a path and you should enter a filename before
pressing Return. Note that floppy disc users must leave the default path of
the floppy drive - usually ADFS::0.$. - in front of the chosen filename.

The saved file will have the name of the player as the filename. This can be
loaded into Paint and printed in the usual way. We've found that to print an
A4 certificate on a laser printer the parameters to set when you've chosen
Print are:

     Portrait
     X scale       3:2
     X scale       3:2

  Make sure the centimetre square is highlighted green then:

     Corner X      -3.2   (note the minus)
     Corner Y       4

STEPPING THROUGH QUESTIONS

For those grades in games which are associated with word files the questions
can be stepped through. When on the game presentation screen press SPACE and
then enter a number between 1 and 512 inclusive. The questions will then be
taken serially from that point so that you can see if they work properly.
When the end of the question file is reached it starts at question one for
that grade.

The only way to exit a game when playing it like this is to press ESCAPE.
Some features of the game such as the timer are disabled so that you can
concentrate on the question.

TUTORIAL ON THE USE OF 'VARIABLE' QUESTIONS

You will notice some questions in word files have square brackets in them
[]. These questions follow a different format from that specified in the
header of each word file. Basically you specify which quantities are to be
variable by enclosing the unknown in square brackets (use ONLY variable
names w, x, y and z). At the end separated by a '#' the variable ranges for
each variable then the relationship between them which will give an answer.

For example :-
A jug holds [x] litres of water. How many jugs will be required to fill a
tub of [y] litres?#0.5,10#10,50i#y/x Here the x range is from 0.5 to 10, the
y range 10 to 50 inclusive the last character in the range is 'i' so only
integer steps are used. The relationship is y divided by x. This must be an
expression which when 'EVAL'uated will give the correct answer. Note the use
of hash '#' to separate data items in these questions and not '/' which is
used for division.

If the symbol '@' is included then this will be replaced throughout by a
letter chosen at random from the set [a,b,c,d,m,n,q,r,s,t,u,v,w,x,y,z]
Example If 2@-4=7  find the value of ... This will be replaced through out
the question with the same randomly chosen symbol ie 2d-4=7, 2t-4=7 and so
on.

More advanced questions can also specify a units text string which will be
appended to any answers generated. It is up to the user to make sure that
the ranges specified cover the units supplied. This units feature is
optional.

For example :-

A tub can take [x] jugs of [y] litres before it is full. How many litres
does the tub hold?\litres#1,10i#2,15i#x*y

Note the use of the backslash '\' and not the divide by '/' to mark where
the units string starts. This should always be at the end of the question
string. The '#' symbol will mark the end. In general restrict yourself to a
unit string + space + answer string of less than 9 spaces which will ensure
that answers do not oversplill on the screen or crash the program.

The units string is appended on to the answer. To create a prefix such as
'£' then after the '\' use the character '|' ie \|£ or \|$. The prefix has
no space between it and the answer as it is mainly used for the money signs
£ and $.

Restrictions
The ranges may only be positive real numbers in 0.5 steps and when 'i' is
specified then only positive integers. The answers given are restricted to
positive values.

Make sure that the ranges are wide enough to generate a range of at least
8 suitable values.

THE SUBJECTS COVERED

10 out of 10 Essential Maths has been designed to cover many traditional
areas of mathematics. The areas covered are all applicable to the National
Curriculum Key Stages 1 and 2 and you can see the exact areas covered by
loading the program and selecting Player Information from the Main Menu. The
Achievement Record will be displayed with numbers below the game titles
either ranging from 1 to 6 - indicating the difficulty of the challenge ™ or
they are more complex numbers such as AT2.L2a.1. These show which Attainment
Targets, Levels and sections of levels are covered by the various programs.
The way to select which display you have is explained later.

If you move the mouse pointer to one of the numbers, the topic covered by
that grade of the game will be displayed. If you move the pointer over one
of the letters a, b, c or d you can discover how the grades are each split
into topics for practice. The colour of the boxes and letters give an
indication as to how well the child named at the top is doing.

The Practice Grades are selected by pressing function keys F1 to F4 while
the Game Menu is displayed. More information about the Practice Grades for
each game, and how many are available for each grade, can be found by
pressing I while the Game Menu of that game is displayed.

If the National Curriculum Levels display is selected, AT numbers show which
area of mathematics the grade covers. The areas are:

  1  Using and applying mathematics
  2  Number (ie arithmetic)
  3  Algebra (ie patterns, sequences and logic)
  4  Shape and space (ie geometry)
  5  Data handling (ie  statistics)

The digit following these letters shows the Level and the final letter and
digit show the topic covered within the level. All the levels are for Key
Stages 1 and 2 (ages 5 to 11) and the table below shows the connection
between the Key Stages, Levels and ages. For completeness, the details of
the other Key Stages are also given - 10 out of 10 Educational Systems
produce packages for many subjects and for all Key Stages.


       Mathematics Key Stages and Attainment Targets

Key Stage    Age (start)*    Age (end)*    School Years    A.T. Levels

    1       Start school+        7           1 to 3          1 to 3
    2           8               11           4 to 6          2 to 6
    3          12               14           7 to 9          3 to 8
    4          15           End school+     10 and 11        4 to 10

* Age refers to the school year in which most of the class reach that age.

+ School start and end refer to the compulsory ages.

The Games - Subjects Covered and Hints

10 out of 10 Essential Maths is designed to reinforce important mathematical
skills for young children and build a strong foundation of mathematical
skills. However, most of the challenges need a little knowledge first for
the child to build upon. Following are some points and definitions of
mathematical words which may help you to explain to the children the
mathematics needed to play the various levels of the games. There are also
numerous hints so that you can help your child become proficient at the
various challenges. 

Note that using a "cheat sheet" (such as the multiplication tables written
on a piece of paper) can be a useful aid to learning if used with the games.
For example, if a child looks up all the answers to a level, he may achieve
100% and learn a few facts along the way but his name will be poorly placed
in the high score table. The motivation provided by this will make him want
to try again to do better - and the way to do that is to play again using
the acquired knowledge to save looking everything up. Eventually, to obtain
the best scores, all the knowledge has to be recalled quickly and the "cheat
sheet" becomes redundant.

Moon Lander

Apart from setting the difficulty option to easy before starting the
challenge, a useful tip for beginners in this game - which works in most
cases - is to always "fly" straight to the top of the screen. Then, keeping
a finger on the mouse button to keep the thrust on, move left and right
until the answer is below the jet-pack. Then release the mouse button and
drop on the answer.

Grade 1: Number bonds up to 10+10. Number bonds are the addition and
subtraction equivalent of tables. A child must know them before attempting
more difficult problems. As mentioned previously, a child can start with the
bonds written out (or use a calculator) and with practice from Moon Lander
they will soon be learnt.

Grade 2: Algebraic substitution. This is a rather complex-sounding title for
a relatively simple challenge. In place of finding the answer to 3+4 the
child has to find the missing number in expressions like s+4=7. If you ask
"What do you add to 4 to make 7" the child will find the questions easier.

Grade 3: Reflective symmetry. The hard part of this level is the words - the
challenge is not too hard. Point out that vertical symmetry means that the
left of the shape is a mirror image of the right or that it has symmetry in
an up/down mirror line. Similarly, horizontal symmetry means that there is a
left to right mirror line or  the top is a reflection of the bottom. Point
out that if you fold a shape along its line of symmetry all the lines in the
two halves of the shape would touch.

Grade 4: Add and subtract single digit numbers. Here is a chance for more
number practice ™ and number bonds (see Grade 1) are very important. Point
out that the order that the numbers are added is irrelevant. For example, in
a question like 6+7+4, if the child realises that 6 and 4 bond to make 10
the answer of 17 is immediately visible.

Grade 5: Division tables . To achieve a high score at this grade the child
needs to be proficient at his or her tables. Practice on Invaders Level 2
and then Gone Fishing Level 3 will help.

Grade 6: Collecting like terms. This is not a difficult exercise, but many
children are put off by the letters. Point out that 3s+5s+s=9s is the same
calculation as 3+5+1=9 (note that s is 1s). Also, using words to give a
"meaning" to the letters often helps: (3sausages+5sausages+a
sausage=9sausages). When there is more than one letter they cannot be mixed:
3e+2s+4e+5s=7e+7s or (in words)
3eggs+2sausages+4eggs+5sausages=7eggs+7sausages.

Crazy Golf

Estimation is an extremely important skill in mathematics. In this game the
child has to estimate the distance to the hole and then estimate the
corresponding reading on the scale to knock the ball there. An interesting
mathematical investigation would be to measure distances on the screen and
graph the distance the ball travels for various powers. Note that, unlike in
real golf, the ball can be bounced off the edge of the course in a similar
way to a snooker ball.

Grade 1: Reading simple barcharts. This is an elementary exercise to let the
child become accustomed to the game while they are introduced to reading
simple bar charts - there are lots more chart and graph challenges, suitable
for all ages from 6 to 16 years, in the 10 out of 10 Maths (Statistics)
package.

Grade 2: The difference between numbers. While most youngsters would have no
problem giving you the answer to 7-5, many would be puzzled if they were
asked what is the difference between 5 and 7. In fact they are both the
same: difference, subtract and take away all have similar meanings. The
point that is not the same is that if the difference is asked for you always
subtract the smaller from the larger. In other words, 7-5 gives a different
answer to 5-7 but the difference between 5 and 7 is the same as the
difference between 7 and 5 (they are both equivalent to 7-5).

Grade 3: Factors of numbers. "Which number is a factor of 36?" simply means
"Which number divides into 36?" Do not confuse factors with prime factors.
The factors of 36 are: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 36. The prime factors
are: 2 and 3. As with all problems based on division, knowledge of tables is
important and they should be practised at the relevant levels of other
games.

Grade 4: Problem Solving. The best advice when problem solving is to read
the question carefully and think about how it can be broken down to simple
addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. For example: "If a man
earns £147 a week, how much does he earn a day?" simplifies to 147÷7. The
child should ensure that the answer is sensible. In this particular problem
some children would think that the numbers should be multiplied. If the
numbers are multiplied the child should realise that the answer is wrong for
two reasons: you don't earn more in a day than a week and over a thousand
pounds is an unlikely day's earnings.

Grade 5: Equivalent fractions. If the child has any difficulty understanding
that, for example, 1/3 = 2/6 = 3/9 and so on, use the analogy of cutting up
a cake. If you cut a cake into three and take one piece you receive the same
amount as if you cut it into six and take two or nine and take three.
Obviously, drawing diagrams to illustrate the points will help.

Grade 6: Angles in shapes. Here it is mainly the words that cause problems.
If a child does not know what the angles in any particular shape add up to,
drawing the shape and measuring them with a protractor is a useful exercise.
Here are some definitions that will help with this level:

  The three angles inside any triangle add up to 180°.
  A right angle is 90° (mention the corner of a book, desk etc.)
  A scalene triangle has three unequal angles and sides
  An equilateral triangle has three equal sides and angles (60°)
  An isosceles triangle has two equal sides and angles
  A complete turn equals 360°
  The angles of a straight line add up to 180°
  A pentagon has five sides (interior angles add up to 540°)
  A hexagon has six sides (interior angles add up to 720°)
  An octagon has eight sides (interior angles add up to 1080°)

Gone Fishing

This is an ideal game for beginners. To allow the child to get used to the
game, the "easy" option (set difficulty on the Game Menu) has no water rats
at all. This means that the child can simply move over the correct answer
and drop the line with no threat of a rat hitting it. Once this has been
mastered, introduce a few rats (medium and hard levels) for more fun and the
possibility of higher scores.

The game moves mainly up through levels of Attainment Target 2 (arithmetic)
making it an ideal way to practise mental arithmetic.

Grade 1: Addition and subtraction facts up to 10. The importance of number
bonds and tables cannot be over emphasised. They are therefore repeated in
various different ways in 10 out of 10 Essential Maths, to ensure that any
child using the suite will become extremely proficient with them.

Grade 2: Addition and subtraction facts up to 20. This grade covers the
bonds to the next stage above Grade 1.

Grade 3: Table practice. A child can look up the tables to begin with. The
fun of the game is a great encouragement to learn the tables and obtain
better scores. The fact that many children find difficult to grasp is that,
for example, 0x3=0 (many say 0x3=3!). Point out that if you give them no
pocket money for three weeks they still have nothing - not £3.

Grade 4: Mental arithmetic. This level uses the facts practised in the
earlier three levels in more difficult calculations.

Grade 5: Division: double digits by a single digit. Proficiency at Level 3
of Gone Fishing helps with the division problems presented at this level.

Grade 6: Understand co-ordinates in all four quadrants. The biggest problem
that children have with co-ordinates like (3,2) is whether to move three
across and five up or five across and three up. Point out that you have to
go through the door before going up (or down) the stairs - they should see
that it means three to the right and two up. Once they have mastered this
fact (press F1 to practise it alone) finding points in the other three
quadrants is soon mastered (use the other three practise grades - press F2,
F3 or F4 - to try each alone).

Invaders

Players need to take care as they play this game - a poor missile launched
towards an invader may hit a wrong answer. However, with determination, this
soon becomes a favourite with the children and they will have hours of fun
practising number skills using it.

Grade 1: Addition and subtraction to 20 (odd one out). This time, for more
addition practice, the child has to work out four sums and discover the odd
one out. See if the child can apply a little logic to the situation: he or
she only needs to work out three of the answers. If one is different it is
the odd one. If all three are the same, the one they have not calculated
must be the odd one.

Grade 2: 2, 5 and 10 times tables. To begin with, let the child actually
work out the division with these three basic tables, then ask what the
pattern is. They should be able to realise that numbers that are part of the
five times table end in five or zero, numbers in the two times table are
even and numbers in the ten times table always end in zero. This means that
1,3,7 and 9 are never answers to any of the questions and can be ignored.

Grade 3: Inputs and outputs to simple function machines. Putting the problem
fully into words helps with this challenge. For example, if the machine
displays "divide by 2", the output is 9 and the input is missing, say: "What
must you divide by nine to make 2?" Also, if the exercise is to find the
input, it is worth mentioning inverses. Using the fact that multiply is the
inverse of divide, the above problem can be rearranged to simply 9x2.

Grade 4: Solve simple equations expressed in words. The "I think of a
number..." problems have always been a favourite. Invaders adds the fun of a
computer game to the traditional logic puzzle. Again, inverses can help. For
example, suppose the problem is: "I think of a number , then subtract 2 and
I'm left with 15 ™ what is the number?" Working through the statement from
right to left using inverses gives: "I start with 15 and add 2 - what is the
answer?"

Grade 5: Multiplication: double digits by a single digit. Often, the child
should be able to apply the knowledge of tables already learnt elsewhere in
10 out of 10 Essential Maths, to quickly discover the correct answer without
performing the whole calculation. For example, if the question is 34x7 the
child should realise that 4x7=28 and if only one of the displayed answers
ends in an eight it must be the correct one. Point out that this is a quick
way to check that any answer is feasible; if a calculator works out 2467x238
as 584679 the wrong button was probably pressed because, as 7x8=56, the
correct answer ends in 6.

Grade 6: Mean, Mode, Median and Range. This is an easy exercise but the four
words make most children cringe. The first three are technically all forms
of average, here is what they are:

* The mean is probably the one that children will have seen. Also called the
arithmetical average, the mean is calculated by adding up the values
displayed and then dividing by the number of values that you added. For
example, the mean of 1, 2, 3 and 6 is (1+2+3+6)/4 which is 3.

* The mode is simply the one that there is most of. In the above (1, 2, 3
and 4) there is no mode ™ the answer is none and not 0 (zero). The mode of
1, 2, 3, 4 and 2 is 2 and the mode of 1, 0, 3, 0, 4 and 7 is 0.

* The median is the middle value (put the numbers in order first). Therefore
the median of 1, 4 and 3 is 3. If there are an even number of values the
median is between the two centre ones so the median of the numbers 1, 5, 6
and 7 is between 5 and 6 (5.5)

* The range of a set of numbers is simply the difference between the
smallest and the largest. So, the range of 4, 2, 6, and 9 is 7 (9-2).

Telescope

This is probably the most relaxed game in the package - the child has to
simply scan the sky for the correct answer. No fast-action arcade skills are
required but finding the answers quickly will lead to higher scores ™ a
great motivation for the child to keep playing.

Grade 1: Counting to 10. This is the simplest exercise in the package. On
Practise Grade 1 (press F1 on the Game Menu) the child only has to have an
idea of how to count to 3 to start using the package.

Grade 2: Odd and even numbers. Tell the child that even numbers are the ones
that are part of the two times table and odd ones are ones that are not.
Point out that only the last digit (eg. the 8 in 48) of a number needs
inspecting to decide whether it is odd or even.

Grade 3: Points of the compass. While most children have very little
difficulty with North, South, East and West, or even the points between them
such as North East, many have trouble with three figure bearings. If, before
they play the game, they draw a diagram showing the three figure bearings
together with the North, South, East and West they can use it until they
become proficient at the task. Note that North is 000° and the three-figure
bearings are measured from there in a clockwise direction.

Grade 4: Time, length, weight and capacity problems. Emphasis in this level
is placed on understanding the units, so that problems involving them can be
solved more quickly and accurately.

Grade 5: Money problems. Calculations in pounds and pence are quickly
mastered by children (they often find £1.36x4 easier than 1.36x4), but other
currencies may cause problems. The idea of this level is to emphasise that
DM 1.36x4 involves exactly the same arithmetic as £1.36x4.

Grade 6: Solving equations. Asking a child to think of the equation in words
rather than letters can make the questions easier. For example, if the
question is x+5=7, the child should be asking: "What number, added to 5,
makes 7".

Shark Island

Clicking on the correct answer will make the man swim there ™ but will a
shark catch him on the way?' The child may have to move away from the answer
and go around a shark. Logical thought is needed, together with the
necessary mathematical skills, to find the correct answer.

Grade 1: Simple coloured sequences. This is probably the first exercise in
algebra that a child will try. It is an introduction to the many patterns
that appear in the world of mathematics.

Grade 2: Telling the time. Although many analogue clocks are being replaced
by digital ones, it is still an important and necessary skill for a child to
be able to tell the time from an analogue clock. Use the Practice Grades
until the child becomes proficient in the various areas, then move onto the
overall grade.

Grade 3: Recognise patterns and sequences. Letters and numbers are introduced
into the patterns and sequences to take the logical reasoning a step further
than Grade 1 of this game where only sequences of shapes were used.

Grade 4: Recognise multiples of numbers. This is another variation on the
important area of tables. The multiples of a number are, in fact, the tables
- the multiples of 3 are 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, 25 etc. To show children that the
same question can often appear in different words, variations like Which
number divides by? and Which is a multiple of? are used. They all mean Which
is in the times table?

Grade 5: Multiply and divide by 10, 100 or 1000. The main point of this
exercise is to emphasise the place values of numbers ™ 2 is different to 20
because, in the former, the 2 represents units while, in the latter, it is
in the tens position. You multiply by multiples of 10 by simply shifting the
numbers to different places. Point out that, for example, 27 is the same as
27.0 but different to 270 because the former does not move the position of
the numbers as tens and units. A final point on this subject is that
expressions like To multiply 47 by 10 you add 0 should be avoided. If you
add 0 to 47 you still have 47.

Grade 6: Estimate the size of everyday objects. It is handy for the child to
have a ruler handy to help with the estimations of length to begin with.
Weights and volumes are slightly more difficult, but looking at labels on
products and performing experiments are two ways which can help a child to
become proficient at this exercise.