Extra notes for 10/10 French

GENERAL

ALWAYS USE A BACKUP OF THE DISC as facts like the high scores are constantly
being written to it. Alternatively, The programs can be installed on a HARD
DISC. All you need to do is to 'drag' the application to a directory window
on your hard disc. The discs may only be backed up for your own use on a
single computer. Copying discs for any other reason is tantamount to theft
and could lead to prosecution. Site licences are available for
establishments with more than one computer or with a network.

All high scores and results are saved to disc as you exit from the game.
Ensure that you LEAVE THE GAMES USING THE EXIT OPTION rather than pressing
break to ensure your facts are stored.

MEMORY

10 out of 10 will run on all Acorn 32-bit computers, but on a 1 Mb machine
you may have to switch the computer off for a few seconds and then turn it
back on.

VGA MONITORS

A utility is included on the disc to allow the package to run on most VGA
monitors. It is called !ModeTrans and is inside the !10/10 application (hold
down shift and double-click on the !10/10 application to see it). A help
file for the utility is inside the !ModeTrans application (hold shift and
double-click).

CERTIFICATE PRINTING

To print a certificate in graphic form you should select the disc option
after you've selected print certificate. You should save it onto hard disc
or a blank formatted disc. You can enter your own filename using the
standard Acorn "Path.filename" structure.

Depending on your system, a default path or filename is given. If the
default ends in a dot it is a path and you should enter a filename before
pressing Return. Note that floppy disc users must leave the default path of
the floppy drive - usually ADFS::0.$. - in front of the chosen filename.

The saved file will have the name of the player as the filename. This can be
loaded into Paint and printed in the usual way. We've found that to print an
A4 certificate on a laser printer the parameters to set when you've chosen
Print are:

     Portrait
     X scale       3:2
     X scale       3:2

  Make sure the centimetre square is highlighted green then:

     Corner X      -3.2   (note the minus)
     Corner Y       4

CUSTOMISING GAMES

The data for all the games is in a directory called FRANCAIS on the disc.
You can add to or replace any of the word/question files but you must take
care to follow the same data structure. A guide to the structure is given at
the start of each file. Any line starting with $ is ignored so you can use
these to put remarks in your files.

Note that each grade is recognised by the label, for example, GRADE1. There
is no space between the word and the number. The maximum number of questions
in any individual grade is 1500, but disc space also limits the overall
number of questions.

TOWER

Due to the way data is laid out it is recommended that you do not alter Q1
or Q2 files.

STONES

For those of you who want to know the three faces are Napoleon Bonaparte,
Louis Pasteur and Marie Curie.