Extra notes for 10/10 English

GENERAL

ALWAYS USE A BACKUP OF THE DISC as facts like the high scores are constantly
being written to it. Alternatively, The programs can be installed on a HARD
DISC. All you need to do is to 'drag' the application to a directory window
on your hard disc.

All high scores and results are saved to disc as you exit from the game.
Ensure that you LEAVE THE GAMES USING THE EXIT OPTION rather than pressing
break to ensure your facts are stored.

Note that with the CURRENT PLAYER set to EMPTY, the achievement record is
never altered and high scores are shown within the game being played but not
saved to disc. If the current player is set to empty and several people
enter their names for a multi-player game the high score tables are also not
saved to disc.

MEMORY

10 out of 10 will run on all Acorn 32-bit computers, but on a 1 Mb machine
you may have to switch the computer off for a few seconds and then turn it
back on.

CERTIFICATE PRINTING

To print a certificate in graphic form you should select the disc option
after you've selected print certificate. You should save it onto a blank,
formatted disc (there isn't room on the 10 out of 10 discs). The saved file
will have the name of the player as the filename. This can be loaded into
Paint and printed in the usual way. We've found that to print an A4
certificate on a laser printer the parameters to set when you've chosen
Print are:

     Portrait
     X scale       3:2
     X scale       3:2

  Make sure the centimetre square is highlighted green then:

     Corner X      -3.2   (note the minus)
     Corner Y       4

CHEERS

Note that if a question is answered wrong you fall back one. Then you fall
one more if you landed on a "down" graphic. However if you answer a question
wrong and fall back to an "up" graphic you won't go up.

You can use your own set of questions in the Cheers game. To do this you
first need to create a file using !Edit that was supplied with your
computer. Just type each question together with the three answers in the
following form:

Question#%answer#answer#answer#

The maximum length of the questions and answers is 64 characters. Use # to
separate each part and % is used to show the correct answer (it can precede
any of the three). Every question and answer must end in # (Returns are
optional). The MAXIMUM number of questions in a file is 100.

When you enter your own questions you MUST ensure that EVERY question and
answer is followed by # and every question has ONE right answer preceded by
%. If you use !Edit to create the file, it's a good idea to move the cursor
to the top of the file, press F4 and use COUNT to check that there are four
times as many #s than %s. If the numbers do not match up the game will warn
you as the file loads. 

When you've finished, SAVE the questions in the QFiles directory on a backup
of the disc (or on your hard disc). To show you the format of the file
you'll find a demonstration one called Easy_Fun already there.

The supplied questions for the six grades are in files Q1 to Q6 in the Qfile
directory. If you wish to use your own graded questions just use those names
on a backup of the disc. Note that as they will become the new questions for
the grades, the achievement chart will be altered as they are answered.

All your own question files should go in the Qfile directory and should not
normally be called Q1 to Q6. When children use them the result will not be
entered on the achievement chart but high scores will still be obtained.

To use this or your own questions first load the Cheers game and cycle
through the various grades by clicking the mouse with the pointer on Grades.
Select USER. Now, when you select PLAY a list of the files in the QFile
directory will be displayed and you can select the one you want. Give
Easy_Fun a try!

Note that the question order is selected at random and the answers will
usually be in the order they were entered in your file. However, if there
are insufficient questions in the file some will be repeated and, in that
case, the order of the answers will be randomly mixed up to minimise exact
repeats.

CUSTOMISING OTHER GAMES

The data for all the other games is in a directory called WORDS on the disc.
You can add to or replace any of the word/question files but you must take
care to follow the same data structure. A guide to the structure is given at
the start of each file. Any line starting with $ is ignored so you can use
these to put remarks in your files.

Note that each grade is recognised by the label, for example, GRADE1. There
is no space between the word and the number. The maximum number of questions
in any individual grade is 1000, but disc space also limits the overall
number of questions.

FURTHER DISCUSSION

Many of the games and levels of 10 out of 10 should lead to further
discussion and reading. For example, as children play Grade 1 of Grab it
they can be asked to recite the whole Nursery rhyme. As they play Grade 5 of
Sniper they can be asked what the proverb means and so on. In Cheers, Grade
6, they should be encouraged to research into where some of the lines come
from and to read the complete poems. Here is a list to help with that task:

"Winds whisper gently whilst she sleeps."
   In Memoriam - Lord Tennyson

"Breath as hush't as Lovers sigh;"
   "Laura Sleeping" - Charles Cotton

No; 'twas but the wind, Or the car rattling o'er the stony
street
   Waterloo - Lord Byron

A rolling organ harmony, Swells up and shakes and falls.
   Sir Galahad - Lord Tennyson

Low, Low, breathe and blow, Wind of the western sea!
   The Princess - Lord Tennyson

"Anything like the sound of a rat makes my heart pit-a-pat!"
   The Pied Piper - R Browning

"With knees well bent, Fingers a-flicking, They dancing
went."
   Off the Ground - Walter De la Mare

"Hush! a rustling wing stirs, methinks, the air:"
Silent is the House - Emily Bronte

"Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn."
   Sonnet - W.Wordsworth

" Buzz said the Bee, and away he flew."
   The Bee and the Lily - Thomas Westwood

"Swings his arms holds up his head, Left, right, left,
right."
   Action Rhyme - E.H.Adams

"My leather shoes go Pit-pat, pit-pat."
   Boots and Shoes - L McCrea