+Plurals$Form the plural of most nouns by adding s or esWords to which you add sWords to which you add es$Plural of nouns ending in y, f, ff or feWords ending in yWords ending in f, ff or fe$Plural of nouns ending in o and irregular nounsWords ending in oHarder words ending in oIrregular plurals$Plural of compound nounsCommon compound nounsHarder compound nouns$Plural of nouns with a foreign originLatin pluralsGreek pluralsOther foreign plurals$Revision of concepts from Levels 1 to 5Harder examples: adding s or esHarder examples: endings y, f, ff or feHarder examples: ending in o and irregular nounsHarder examples: compound nounsHarder examples: foreign plurals+Sounds and Patterns I$Long vowel sounds Iee and ea sounding like ee in feetal, au, aw, and or sounding like or in bornear, er and our sounding like er in herdir, or and ur sounding like ir in firmew, oe, oo, u, and ui sounding like oo in moon$Diphthongs Ia, ai and ay sounding like ay in bayou and ow sounding like ow in nowoi and oy sounding like oy in toyi, ie and y sounding like ie in pieo, oa and ow sounding like ow in slow$Word endings IWords ending in ight or ite.Words ending in acy or asy.Words ending in ey, ie or y.Words ending in al, el, il,  le or ol.$Letter patterns IIf, ff, gh and ph sounding like ff in offdge and ge sounding like ge in agec, s, sc and ss sounding like ss in kiss$Word endings IIIWords ending in ant or ent.Words ending in ance or ence.Words ending in ancy or ency.Words ending in sion, ssion and tion.Words ending in cean, cian, cion or sian.$Revision of concepts from levels 1 to 5Harder examples: long vowel sounds IHarder examples: diphthongs IHarder examples: word endings IHarder examples: letter patterns IIHarder examples: word endings III+Sounds and Patterns II$Short vowel soundse and ea sounding like e in beda, au, o and ou sounding like o in mopoo, ou and u sounding like u in puto, ou and u sounding like u in huti and y sounding like i in pit$Letter patterns IHard k sound made by ck and k.sh sound made by ch and sh.Hard k sound made by ch and k.Hard and soft c sound made by c, cc and s. Soft tch sound made by ch and tch.$Diphthongs IIa, ea, ei and ey sounding like ea in breakai, igh, oi, y and ye sounding like y in fryoe, ou and ough, sounding like oe in hoeear, eer, ere and ier, sounding like eer in beerair, are, ear and ere, sounding like air in stair$Word endings IIWords ending in able or ible.Words ending in ary, ery, ory or ry.Words ending in cede, ceed or sede.Words ending in eous, ious, ous or us.Words ending in ar, er, or or our.$Long vowel sounds IIei and ie sounding like ei in deceitar, au, augh, ore, ough, our sounding as ore in boreeu, ew, u and ue sounding like ue in argue$Revision of concepts from levels 1 to 5Harder examples: short vowel soundsHarder examples: letter patterns IHarder examples: diphthongs IIHarder examples: word endings IIHarder examples: long vowel sounds II+Homophones, Prefixes and Suffixes$Homophones IGraded examples (pairs in sentences)Graded examples (pairs in sentences)Graded examples (pairs in sentences)$Prefixesdis, il, im, in, ir, non, unarch, auto, mega, micro, mono, multi, circumextra, inter, photo, pre, ultra, antipre, re, semi, sub, trans, post$Homophones IIGraded examples (pairs and triples in sentences)Graded examples (pairs and triples in sentences)Graded examples (pairs and triples in sentences)$SuffixesNo base change adding a suffix with verb startNo base change adding a suffix with consonant startDouble last letter of base when adding suffixWords where final e is dropped and y changes to iThe suffixes full and fully$Homophones IIIGraded examples (pairs with definitions)Graded examples (pairs with definitions)Graded examples (pairs with definitions)$Revision of concepts from Levels 2 and 4Harder examples: PrefixesHarder examples: Suffixes+Troublesome words$Troublesome words IFrequently misspelt words IDouble letters ISilent letters Iei or ie? IOne word or two? I$Troublesome words IIFrequently misspelt words IIDouble letters IISilent letters IIei or ie? II$Troublesome words IIIFrequently misspelt words IIIDouble letters IIISilent letters IIIei or ie? IIIOne word or two? II$Troublesome words IVFrequently misspelt words IVDouble letters IVSilent letters IVei or ie? IV$Troublesome words VFrequently misspelt words VDouble letters VSilent letters Vei or ie? V$Troublesome words VIFrequently misspelt words VIDouble letters VISilent letters VIei or ie? VI+Punctuation$Capital letters, full stops & exclamation marksCapital letters and full stops to mark sentencesCapital letters used to begin names & for the word ITitles and abbreviationsExclamation marks$Question marksDirect questionsIndirect and tag questions$Inverted commasDirect speechTitles of works and words used in a different sense$CommasTo mark a brief pauseTo separate items in a listTo mark off inessential parts of a sentence & asides$ApostrophesTo indicate possessionTo form contractions$Semi-colons, colons and hyphensSemi-colons and colonsHyphens