Extra notes for 10/10 DRIVING TEST

If you are running the programs from floppy disc ALWAYS USE A BACKUP
OF DISC 2 as facts like the high scores are constantly being written
to it. The disc should NOT be write-protected. The discs may only be
backed up for your own use on a single computer. Copying discs for
any other reason is tantamount to theft and could lead to prosecution.
Site licences are available for establishments with more than one
computer or with a network.

The programs can be installed on a hard disc.  All you need to do is
double click on the !INSTALL application and then  either enter  a
directory name where you want the suite to be installed, or simply
drag a directory box to the !INSTALL window.  The !INSTALL  program
will then instruct you as to what to do next.

All high scores and results are saved to disc as you exit from the
game. Ensure that you LEAVE THE GAMES USING THE EXIT OPTION rather
than pressing Control+Break or the reset button to ensure your facts
are stored.

Note that with the CURRENT PLAYER set to NONE, you cannot play any of
the games - select NEW PLAYER and enter a name.

MEMORY

10 out of 10 will run on all Acorn 32-bit computers, but on a 1 Mb
machine you may have to switch the computer off for a few seconds and
then turn it back on.

VGA Monitors

A utility is included on Disc 1 to allow the package to run on most
VGA monitors. It is called !ModeTrans and is inside the !10/10Driv
application (hold down Shift and double-click on !10/10Driv to see
it). A help file for the utility is inside the !ModeTrans application
(hold shift and double-click).

PASS and FAIL CERTIFICATE PRINTING

To print the certificate awarded at the end of 'TAKE TEST' you should
answer YES to the save prompt and save it onto hard disc or a blank
formatted disc. You can enter your own filename using the standard
Acorn "Path.filename" structure.

Depending on your system, a default path or filename is given. If 
the default ends in a dot it is a path and you should enter a 
filename before pressing Return. Note that floppy disc users must 
leave the default path of the floppy drive - usually ADFS::0.$. - 
in front of the chosen filename.

The saved certificate can be loaded into !Paint and
printed in the usual way. Alternatively (and better) it can be loaded
into any DTP package.

We've found that to print an A4 certificate using !Paint on a laser
printer the parameters to set when you've chosen Print are:

     Landscape
     X scale       8:5
     Y scale       7:5

  Make sure the centimetre square is highlighted green then:

     Corner X      .5
     Corner Y      .5

The shading appears better at 300dpi than 600dpi.

THE QUESTIONS

Unless otherwise stated, all questions refer to British motoring.

Some picture questions show cars displaying arrows. These arrows show
that the car is moving and its direction of movement. Cars without
arrows are stationary.

Due to the complex random access file structure used to allow you to
select any combination of categories for use within a game, none of
the files should be altered or extended by users. Even a small change
will cause the programs to fail.

SAVING FILES

All player details are saved in the file Achieve which is kept in the
Achieves directory - on Disc 2 or as a sub-directory of !10/10Driv on
hard disc. On floppy disc this cannot be changed and if you want to
store the achievements of more than 64 players (or split players into
groups or classes) you should use backups of Disc 2.

On a hard disc you can store several sets of achievements. To create a
new file of achievements (or to switch to an existing one) type Ctrl+F
at the Main Menu and you will be shown the current file and given the
opportunity to change it.

PRINTING THE ACHIEVEMENT RECORD

To print the Achievement Record select Print at the bottom right hand
corner of the Achievement Record. Choose your required settings, then
select print.

You can print to disc or printer, but if you select the latter only
text output is allowed. The text output is in the form of a list of
your achievements rather than a chart.

If you choose a graphical printout, the Achievement Record is saved to
disc and can be printed in the same way as a certificate (see above).

Page length and the margins only apply if you send text to a printer.
Text sent to disc can be loaded into any word processor and printed.

If you print directly from the package note that you should set the
options so that: Page length + Top margin + Bottom margin should be
equal to the total length of your sheet of paper.
