10/10 Spelling & Punctuation.

HELP NOTES


GENERAL

ALWAYS USE A BACKUP OF THE DISC as facts like the high scores are constantly
being written to the disc. Alternatively, the programs can be installed on a 
HARD DISC. All you need to do is to 'drag' the application to a directory 
window on your hard disc.

All high scores and results are saved to disc as you exit from the game.
Ensure that you LEAVE THE GAMES USING THE EXIT OPTION, rather than pressing
break, to ensure your facts are stored.


MEMORY

10 out of 10 will run on all Acorn 32-bit computers, but on a 1 Mb machine
you may have to switch the computer off for a few seconds and then turn it
back on.

If "Application needs at least 432K to start up" occurs, even after turning
the computer off and then on again, you will need to reorganise the memory
allocation as displayed in the task display to give a combined value of at
least 432K in NEXT and FREE. (Consult your computer manuals if you are not
sure how to do this.)

If "Not enough screen memory allocated" occurs, even after turning the
computer off and then on again, you will need to adjust the screen memory
in the task display to 160K. (Consult your computer manuals if you are not
sure how to do this.)

If "No room in RMA" occurs, even after turning the computer off and then on
again, you may need to increase the MODULE AREA by as much as 160K through
the task display. (Consult your computer manuals if you are not sure how to
do this.)


VGA MONITORS

A utility is included on the disc to allow the package to run on most VGA
monitors. It is called !ModeTrans and is inside the !10/10 application (hold
down shift and double-click on the !10/10 application to see it). A help
file for the utility is inside the !ModeTrans application (hold shift and
double-click).


CERTIFICATE PRINTING

To print a certificate in graphic form you should select the disc option 
followed by the graphic option after selecting print certificate. This saves 
the graphic display to disc which can be loaded into Paint later and printed 
in the usual way.

If you are running the program from floppy disc, you should save it onto a 
blank, formatted disc (there is not much room on the 10 out of 10 disc). The 
saved file will have the name of the player followed by "-C" as the filename 
(unless it was named otherwise when saved). After saving, the program disc 
should be inserted before continuing.

If you are running the program from hard disc, you will be given the choice 
of saving to the hard disc or to a floppy. If saved to the hard disc the 
file will be saved in a directory named "Certs" which is in the "!10/10SpPu" 
directory. To access the saved file, exit the program, double click on the 
"!10/10SpPu" icon with SHIFT held down, then double click on the "Certs" 
directory.

The saved graphic display can be loaded into Paint and printed in the usual 
way. We've found that to print an A4 certificate on a laser printer the 
parameters to set when you've chosen Print are:

     Portrait
     X scale       3:2
     Y scale       3:2

  Make sure the centimetre square is highlighted green then:

     Corner X      -3.2   (note the minus)
     Corner Y       4


GAME HINTS

The key controls for Lunarpede and Spheroids are as follows:-

             Keys 1          Keys 2          Keys 3

   Up          '               A           Cursor Up
   Down        /               Z           Cursor down
   Left        Z               .           Cursor left
   Right       X               /           Cursor right

All games can be paused using the P key. To resume, click the mouse or press 
a key.

Pressing the R key during a game reveals the "topic" currently being used.


SPHEROIDS

When using the mouse to guide Douglas, the cross pointer should be positioned
North, South, East or West for Douglas to move towards the cross. If 
positioned diagonally away from Douglas then he will not know in which 
direction to move!

The A icons that Douglas collects are colour coded to match the corresponding
answer.

The spheroids will automatically start to move after the length of time set 
aside for reading the question. If you are ready before this time is up, 
pressing a key or clicking the mouse will start the game immediately.



LUNARPEDE

Under mouse control, the Lunarpede only changes direction towards the pointer
when a mouse button is pressed. To make him follow the pointer, keep the 
mouse button pressed all the time.

Under key control, pressing a direction key makes him turn in that direction.

There is a short pause to enable you to read the question, but pressing a key
or clicking the mouse will start the game immediately.

The A icons that the Lunarpede collects are colour coded to match the 
corresponding answer.

